# crispy-octo-couscous

Background of your question(10pts)
I am interested in investing and the returns that come with it rather than keeping cash in the bank or a CD through the local bank. However, there are risks associated with investing, and I would like to see if there is any correlation between a stock I have and the overall market. Unfortunately, it was complicated and tedious to gather the data. Most of the datasets online do not have clean and clear data even after cleaning it up with the columns that I thought would answer the question. Luckily, I found a website called Kaggle through a professor at the University. These datasets are very useful because actual python programmers use them, and much of the data is ready to use with minor adjustments. Also, I decided to research a specific stock in my portfolio of American Airlines (AAL). To see how it may stack up against another stock I have, S & P Global Inc.(SPGI), to see any correlation between the two.

Difficulties in taming data(10pts)
The biggest problem that I ran into was finding the mean for the whole year as the dataset is split per day. To compare the two, this would not solve my initial problem: to see how much American Airlines moves with or against the S & P Global in my portfolio in a given year. Additionally, the two datasets had different rows of data from American Airlines starting from 2005 to 2021 compared to S & P Global Inc. from 2013 to 2018.

Overcoming the hurdles(10pts)
First, my thinking is to lay out the data to see what I am working with, and after running the info, head, and describe functions, it is then time to see what is laid out before me. Then, I noticed that the data is displayed by day and created a new column called 'Year.' To do this, I had to import the DateTime package and then call the pd.DatetimeIndex function and assign Dataframe['Year'] to call the process when generating the year column's mean and create the column called 'Year' simultaneously. One of the last adjustments to the dataset is to match the shapes of the column sizes by dropping columns 2005 through 2012 and 2019 through 2021 for the shapes to fit and run the np.corrcoef function. Otherwise, it runs into an error.

Results and Major Findings(10pts)
Initially, I wanted to see the R-squared value, represented by R 2, as the square of the correlation or similarity. It estimates the balance of variation in the dependent variable attributed to the independent variable. The R-squared value R 2 is invariably between 0 and 1 inclusive—an excellent positive linear relationship. I created a function to see the R squared value when the Year compares to the opening and Volume of stocks with this information. The openings R 2 is ≈ 0.047 and the Volume ≈ 0.181. comparison is to say that there is a low correlation between the Year and the opening and Volume. Next, I figured that I would not find any correlation between the American Airlines stock and the S & P Global Inc. Initially, I created a plot graph with the plt.plot function to display the data and visualize the data. A positive correlation measure between 0.1 to 1.0 scale. A weak positive correlation varies from 0.1 to 0.3, a medium positive correlation varies 0.3 to 0.5, and a definite positive correlation from 0.5 to 1.0. The more substantial the positive correlation, the better the stocks will advance in the identical path. It looks as if there is a negative correlation between the two stocks. However, to my amazement, the np.corrcoef function displays ≈ 0.679. Comparing the two stocks, there is a strong correlation between American Airlines and S & P Global.

Next Steps(10pts)
Last, if more time is allotted, I would like to explore other stocks in my portfolio to investigate a particular trend and correlation between specific industries and better understand how to diversify my portfolio. Also, to calculate negative correlations and always have a stable portfolio even in times of uncertainty in the market.
